# Data-analysis-projects
# Project 1:- Preprocessing and Analysis by creating decision tree
After reading the project description and requirements, the first thing we did is to research about R programming and RStudio, it's data mining libraries that can be used to implement the Decision tree and Naive Bayes on our data set. We had no prior knowledge on how Information Gain and GINI index works so it was difficult task that we think we have accomplished with the help of video lectures and some googling. With the comparison of the Decision tree using Information Gain and GINI index, also implementing Naive Bayes we think that we have completed all the requirements of this project.
# Project 2:- Preprocessing and Analysis by forming clusters
The problem statement says that we have to use k-means clustering for the analysis of given weather data set for the years 2006 to 2010 so we first understood what is k-means and how it works in R by reading the text and watching some video lectures. For clustering we understood that we had to calculate the value of k (for k clusters) which we did using the R function fviz_nbclust() by which we can estimate the number of clusters. Next we calculated the distance measures Euclidean using R base dist() function and Pearson correlation coefficient using the function get_dist(). We the change the seed for random number generator which and clustered the data again for analysis with differently chosen centroids for Euclidean and for Pearson correlation coefficient. We then compare the clusters from different metric for the same year using Jaccard coefficient using the function jaccard_indep() and we repeat this for different years also. After we finished all the clustering of data, we also visualized the data for the year 2008 on the Texas map. Hence according to project requirements, we were able to accomplish all the points mentioned in the project 2 document.
# Project 3:- Preprocessing and Analysis by Association Rules
As specified in the project description we first cleaned the data in the preprocessing step. After that we assigned integer value to the item description and attached that data to the respective invoice number. This data was converted into basket format and then that was converted into transactions. Using apriori algorithm we generated frequent item set (using apriori function) and candidate item set (using user defined function). Then we generated association rules using all the 9 combinations of support and confidence with the transactions. After that we filtered out 10 rules each for lift>10 and lift<10. Out of all the 9 combinations we visualized top 100 in descending order of minimum confidence.
